## OpenStack Services Required

FIWARE Lab Nodes are based on the OpenStack distribution. Please take a
look to the section OpenStack upgrade version policy in FIWARE Lab (see
section 3.2) to understand which version of OpenStack should be running
on the nodes. As such and to the time of writing this document, nodes
are required to install the following OpenStack services based on the
'''OpenStack Newton release''':

-   Mandatory:

    -   OpenStack Nova (using KVM as hypervisor since image catalogue
        stores KVM compatible images).

    -   OpenStack Glance (Swift as default backend type, the solution
        may be adopted depending on hardware owned by the specific
        FIWARE Lab node).

    -   OpenStack Cinder (as default solution we suggest LVM, other
        solution may be adopted depending on hardware owned by the
        specific FIWARE Lab node).

    -   OpenStack Neutron with OVS and GRE or VxLAN tunnels (floating
        IPs must be made available to users. The minimum number is
        currently under discussion).

    -   OpenStack Ceilometer with MongoDB as backed as default solution.

    -   OpenStack Keystone only for initial setup and testing, then
        FIWARE Lab keystone should be used[^1].

    -   OpenStack Horizon only for initial setup and testing, then
        FIWARE Lab Cloud Portal should be used.

-   Optional

    -   OpenStack Swift with 3 replication factor value. Optionally,
        could be installed CEPH with the OpenStack Swift APIs.

    -   OpenStack Murano with OpenStack Heat for PaaS capabilities.

    -   OpenStack Magnum with Swarm for managed docker.