## Configuring FIWARE Lab Node

This section provides details about how to make the proper changes in
the configuration of your node in order to join FIWARE Lab. Those
changes are basically related to the proper configuration of flavours
and quotas and more important, related to the common way to define the
available networks in a FIWARE Lab node.

### Configure Flavors and Quotas

The default flavors should be:

| **ID** | **Name** | **Memory (MB)** | **Disk (Gb)** | **Ephemeral** | **Swap** | **vCPUs** | **RXTX Factor** | **Public** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | 
| 1 | m1.tiny | 512 | 1 | 0 | | 1 | 1.0 | True |
| 2 | m1.small | 2048 | 20 | 0 | | 1 | 1.0 | True |
| 3 | m1.medium| 4096 | 40 | 0 | | 2 | 1.0 | True |
| 4 | m1.large | 8192 | 80 | 0 | | 4 | 1.0 | True |

For the nova service, default quotas the values that should be defined
are the following:

Default defined quotas

| **Quota** | **Limit** |
| --- | --- |
| Instances | 2 |
| Cores | 4 |
| RAM | 4096 |
| Floating IPs | 1 |
| Fixed IPs | -1 |
| Metadata Items | 1024 |
| Injected files | 5 |
| Injected file content (bytes) | 20240 |
| Injected file path (bytes) | 255 |
| Key pairs | 10 |
| Security Groups | 10 |
| Security Group Rules | 20 |

The neutron default quotas should be:

Default defined neutron quotas

| **Field** | **Value** |
| --- | --- |
| Floating IP | 1 |
| Network | 5 |
| Port | 20 |
| Router | 1 |
| Security Group | -1 |
| Security Group Rule | -1 |
| Subnet | 5 |

### Configure OpenStack Networks

FIWARE Lab has defined a predefined name of networks to be used by all
the nodes. It helps to the different services deployed on top of
OpenStack to work with the correct network without any special
configuration on it.

- **public-ext-net-01**. This is the Public External network, a non-shared network 
    providing a
    floating IP pool (i.e. subnet) that provides public, routable IPv4
    addresses. Additionally, nodes can configure IPv6 dual-stack on this
    network in order to provide IPv6 addresses. This network is not
    visible to attach directly OpenStack Instances on it. It is only
    visible to allocate public IPs to be used by tenants.

- **node-int-net-01**. A shared tenant network providing DHCP IPv4 (and IPv6 in the future)
    addresses. This network is visible for all tenants and therefore
    anyone can attach OpenStack instances on it. Any node could choose its
    own network range since this should not collide with other node’s
    networks.

There is no limitation in the use of networks and every node can
configure additional networks in its OpenStack configuration. If we test
this information with the CLI tool we obtain the following result if we
execute the following command:

```
$ neutron net-list
```

Or using the more recent version of the CLI, the following command:

```
$ openstack network list
```

The output of networks and subnets should be:

Example returned values of: openstack network list


| Id | Name | subnets |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 3dccc622-7200-40be-b523-0f73674db0e7 | public-ext-net-01 | 44c356e1-53ad-43ce-b3b7-816bbd1d9529 130.206.82.0/22 |
| b99da016-cb02-4556-8d5f-2ce27a9a861d | node-int-net-01 | a250c7a4-4d23-4c9a-85be-3e9b367a00a1 172.16.0.0/20 |

And if we check the sub-network that we have associated to this network,
through the following commands

```
$ neutron subnet-list
```
or

```
$ openstack subnet list
```

we will see something like this for the second network:

Example returned values of: openstack subnet list


| Id | Name | CIDR | Allocation pools
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a250c7a4-4d23-4c9a-85be-3e9b367a00a1 | node-int-subnet-01 | 172.16.0.0/20 | {"start": "172.16.0.2", "end": "172.16.15.254"} |
