## Base-images Management

The creation of base images is a very important operation mainly due the
security updates and configuration of them. We download the official
images from the different OS supported in FIWARE Lab for OpenStack.
There are the three options that we can manage:

-   CentOS 6 and 7,

-   Ubuntu 14.04 and 16.04 (LTS releases) and

-   Debian 7 and 8.

However, we try to modify these images in order to make the default
image a little more secure doing some operations on the Base Image. For
this purpose, we follow the recommendations of the Centre for Internet
Security ([*CIS*](https://www.cisecurity.org/)). CIS is a
forward-thinking, non-profit entity that harnesses the power of a global
IT community to safeguard private and public organizations against cyber
threats. CIS Benchmarks is the global standard and recognized best
practices for securing IT systems and data against the most pervasive
attacks. It provides a very exhaustive guideline, continuously refined
and verified, to configure Operating System in a secure way. The
recommendations that we adopt in the configuration of the virtual
machines are the following:

-   We remove the default password for the default user. Additionally,
    the only valid method to login on the Instances is through
    public-private key.

-   Root user is disabled to be used to access to the Instance
    through SSH.

-   We remove the less secure ciphers from the valid ciphers and the
    less secure Key exchange methods.

-   We add a Warning banner explaining that an authorization is needed
    to access to these Instances.

-   We add some IPTables rules to ensure that by default, only some
    ports (ssh, http and https can be used).

-   By default, we enable only automatic security updates.

-   The administrative access to the instances is using a specific user
    with both password and public-private key. Every FIWARE Lab node has
    assigned the corresponding administrator who contact us to provide
    details about this access.

All the FIWARE GEis, that are deployed using these base images,
inheriting those security configurations options. Sometimes, under the
requirements of the FIWARE GEis owners, we need to modify IPTables rules
in order to allow the use of other ports.
